# AIFinal
This is a small game I made in p5js to experiment with neural nets. The code for the neural net and pool inheritence is adapted from Dan Shiffman (https://github.com/shiffman), and the project is inspired by his youtube videos on machine learning. There are buttons on the page which should be self-explanitory, and you can use the keyboard if you don't want to click on them. This works by randomly building a 3-layer neural net, with inputs of the players x location, velocity, and the locations of the two nearest obstacles. The outputs are left or right accelerations. You can change the number of hidden layer nodes, it is capable of playing the game well with only a single node in the hidden layer. Once all of the players have crashed, their fitness is calculated by squaring how many ticks they survived. Their fitness is normalized between zero and one, then a new generation is created by using the normalized fitness as a probability of being selected from the previous generation. This is also when mutation occurs, with a randomized function mapping over the hidden weights and biases whenever a player's brain is copied. This game is actually simple enough that if the player is only capable of looking at the nearest obstacle, it can create a randomly generated brain that is capable of playing the game very well. This happens with about a 1/8000 chance. I discovered this as I had a bug where the brains where always generating randomly, rather than inheriting from the last generation, and I still saw the occasional good player.

The graph is scaled based on the all time highest fitness being at the top of the screen. The brain is scaled such that the higher the weight/bias, the lighter the color. They are scaled relatively to each other. When loading the good brains, test them via the test-best-brain button. You can hot-swap the brains while the player is playing, and see how they are structured and behave differently. 

You can run the project by going to ashleygw.github.io, or by opening index.html.
